README.md, before:

# bertha-client [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/bertha-client.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/bertha-client) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bertha-client.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/bertha-client)

A client library for fetching data from [Bertha](https://github.com/ft-interactive/bertha). For use in Node and the browser.

Why use this instead of fetching Bertha URLs with `fetch` or `axios`?

- takes care of the URL syntax
- gives more helpful error messages when things go wrong
- provides an easy way to transform sheets into objects


## Installation

- `yarn add bertha-client` **or** `npm install bertha-client`

**Browser**: Use Browserify or Rollup. Requires [window.fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope/fetch), so make sure this is [polyfilled](https://cdn.polyfill.io/v2/docs/features/#fetch).

**Node**: Just `require` or `import` as usual. No need to polyfill anything – the Node version of bertha-client uses [node-fetch](https://github.com/bitinn/node-fetch) internally.


## Usage

```js
import * as bertha from 'bertha-client'; // or const bertha = require('bertha-client');

bertha.get(spreadsheetKey, ['someSheet', 'anotherSheet|object']).then((data) => {
  console.log(data);
  // { someSheet: [...], anotherSheet: [...] }
});
```


## API

Currently there is just one method.

### bertha.get(spreadsheetKey, sheetNames, [options])

Fetches the sheet and returns a promise for the response data.

##### spreadsheetKey

String (required). A valid Google spreadsheet key, or a full Google Spreadsheet URL or Bertha URL.

##### sheetNames

Array of strings (required). The names of the sheets you want to get. A sheet name may be appended with `|object` to apply the "object" transformation.

```js
// example
const sheetNames = [
  'polls',
  'authors',
  'copy|object', // applies the "object" transformation
]
```

##### `options`

Plain object (optional).

- `republish` (default: false) – set to `true` if you want Bertha to trigger a republish.

## Response data

The data is always returned a plain JavaScript object (not an array). The key names correspond with the sheet names.

### The `|object` transformation

If you append a sheet name with `|object`, that sheet will be transformed into a **plain object** (instead of an array), using the sheet's `name` and `value` columns as key paths and values, respectively. Any other columns are discarded.

Example spreadsheet:

| name               | value   |
| ------------------ | ------- |
| foo                | hiya    |
| bar                | 123     |
| someone.age        | 50      |
| someone.name.first | Bob     |
| someone.name.last  | Hoskins |

```js
// result of "|object" transform
{
  foo: 'hiya',
  bar: '123',
  someone: {
    age: '50',
    name: {
      first: 'Bob',
      last: 'Hoskins',
    }
  },
}
```


## Development

### Local setup

Recommended approach:

- Clone this repo and run `yarn`.
- Run `yarn run build -- --watch` – this will compile files continually from `src` to `dist` using Babel.
- In another terminal, run `yarn run ava -- --watch` to run ava continually against files in `dist`.


### Publishing to npm

This module is automatically published to npm via CircleCI whenever the master branch contains a higher version string than the latest published version.

To publish a new version:

- `yarn version` (will prompt you to enter a new version)
- `git push && git push --tags`

Commit message:

Add parseKey (#6)
* bump deps

* add typedefs for deps

* add parseKey and domains

* fix eslint command

* Revert "fix eslint command"

This reverts commit c4d097d0cf750cc99b01e7f3936be78235f02d35.

* ignore flow-typed

README.md, after:

# bertha-client [![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/bertha-client.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/bertha-client) [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/bertha-client.svg)](https://npmjs.com/package/bertha-client)

A client library for fetching data from [Bertha](https://github.com/ft-interactive/bertha). For use in Node and the browser.

Why use this instead of fetching Bertha URLs with `fetch` or `axios`?

- takes care of the URL syntax
- gives more helpful error messages when things go wrong
- provides an easy way to transform sheets into objects


## Installation

- `yarn add bertha-client` **or** `npm install bertha-client`

**Browser**: Use Browserify or Rollup. Requires [window.fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowOrWorkerGlobalScope/fetch), so make sure this is [polyfilled](https://cdn.polyfill.io/v2/docs/features/#fetch).

**Node**: Just `require` or `import` as usual. No need to polyfill anything – the Node version of bertha-client uses [node-fetch](https://github.com/bitinn/node-fetch) without modifying the global scope.


## Usage

```js
import * as bertha from 'bertha-client'; // or const bertha = require('bertha-client');

bertha.get(spreadsheetKey, ['someSheet', 'anotherSheet|object']).then((data) => {
  console.log(data);
  // { someSheet: [...], anotherSheet: [...] }
});
```


## API

### bertha.get(spreadsheetKey, sheetNames, [options])

Fetches the sheet and returns a promise for the response data.

##### spreadsheetKey

String (required). A valid Google spreadsheet key, or a full Google Spreadsheet URL or Bertha URL.

##### sheetNames

Array of strings (required). The names of the sheets you want to get. A sheet name may be appended with `|object` to apply the "object" transformation.

```js
// example
const sheetNames = [
  'polls',
  'authors',
  'copy|object', // applies the "object" transformation
]
```

##### `options`

Plain object (optional).

- `republish` (default: false) – set to `true` if you want Bertha to trigger a republish.

### bertha.parseKey(url, [silent])

Takes any valid Google Sheets URL or Bertha URL and returns a plain spreadsheet key. If the string you pass is already a plain key, it returns it unchanged.

If you set `silent` to `true`, invalid input will result in the function returning `null` instead of throwing an error.

### bertha.domains

An array of known Bertha domains.

## Response data

The data from `bertha.get()` is always returned as a plain JavaScript object (even if there is only one sheet). The key names correspond with the sheet names.

### The `|object` transformation

If you append a sheet name with `|object`, that sheet will be transformed into a **plain object** (instead of an array), using the sheet's `name` and `value` columns as key paths and values, respectively. Any other columns are discarded.

Example spreadsheet:

| name               | value   |
| ------------------ | ------- |
| foo                | hiya    |
| bar                | 123     |
| someone.age        | 50      |
| someone.name.first | Bob     |
| someone.name.last  | Hoskins |

```js
// result of "|object" transform
{
  foo: 'hiya',
  bar: '123',
  someone: {
    age: '50',
    name: {
      first: 'Bob',
      last: 'Hoskins',
    }
  },
}
```


## Development

### Local setup

Recommended approach:

- Clone this repo and run `yarn`.
- Run `yarn run build -- --watch` – this will compile files continually from `src` to `dist` using Babel.
- In another terminal, run `yarn run ava -- --watch` to run ava continually against files in `dist`.


### Publishing to npm

This module is automatically published to npm via CircleCI whenever the master branch contains a higher version string than the latest published version.

To publish a new version:

- `yarn version` (will prompt you to enter a new version)
- `git push && git push --tags`
